Country of citizenship: Veterans' Preference: Highest Grade: Contact Current Employer: citizenship: Veterans' Preference: Highest Grade: Contact Current Employer: AVAILABILITY Desired Work Environment DESIRED LOCATIONS Ronald Joseph Botelho 652 West 163rd Street Apt 4 New York, NY 10032 Mobile: 917-364-3334 Evening Phone: 212.543.2109 Day Phone: 212.807-2997, ext 3225 Email: ronusarmyret@earthlink.net United States of America 10-point preference based on a compensable servi connected disability of 30 percent or more GS-0998-6, 05/2009-Present Yes Job Type: Permanent Detail Work Schedule: Full Time Shift Work Mission-Focused Mid-Career Professional Highly Mobile Experienced Professionals Alternative Work Schedule Revolving US-NY-New York City WORK EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE Department of Veterans 5/2009 - Pres Affairs New York, NY US Grade Level: GS Salary: 39,405 Year Hours per wee Claims Assistant , 0998 Function as an assistant to the Veterans Service Representative, the Service Center Manager and t Director, in establishing or re-establishing compensat and death claims made by veterans and / or their Sort, file and retrieve veteran’s medical, service, and relevant evidence and supporting documents. Req records from other agencies to assist the veteran her claim, when necessary. Track, sort and take act when appropriate, on all correspondence and evid delivered to the New York Veterans Affairs Regiona Review claim forms for completeness, accuracy, an relevance. Prepare evidence, and supporting docu as appropriate. Prepare documents for electronic scan; enter claim and evidential information into databa Perform file maintenance and other associated dut Exceed standards in all areas of responsibility. Est new work-flow dynamics resulting in significant co to the U.S. Government. Demonstrated flexibility i assignments. Extremely knowledgeable of "Claims" processes" and thoroughly familiar with applicable (i.e., CFR 38), and implementing Standard Operati Procedures (i.e., M21-1MR). Additional assignments include coordinator and subj matter expert for the interpretation and execution Privacy Act" 19974 and its amendments. Moreover as a coordinator of a new and streamlined process claims adjudication entitled " Fully Developed Prog (FDC)." The "FDC" initiative is a Veterans Affairs pr process and adjudicate claims within 90 days. This involves constant coordination with the veteran to that all sources of evidence are determined releva information used appropriately to assist in the claim process. Understand and demonstrate full performance leve aspects of TRIAGE operations (Contact Supervisor Supervisor's Name: Doretha Turner, Supervisor's that all sources of evidence are determined releva information used appropriately to assist in the claim process. Understand and demonstrate full performance leve aspects of TRIAGE operations (Contact Supervisor Supervisor's Name: Doretha Turner, Supervisor's 212-807-3150) United Service Organization 5/2007 - 5/20 (USO) New York, NY US Hours per wee Volunteer Assisted in operations and fund rising campaigns f New York Chartered, USO. Provided emotional and psychology support to visiting and/or displaced US Coalition military service members. Support includ not limited to, finding overnight accommodations, sports and entertainment tickets, assistance in shor long-term trip planning to New York City, and partn with appropriate military officials when necessary. Independently sought and successfully made arran for first-class accommodations and meals and other entertainment for seriously wounded service mem their families. Served as a liaison and had limited responsibility for personally raising needed funds th USO contributors. Highlight: Escorted a severely wounded Navy Seal mother to 'Windows of the world.' " ...one place wh wanted to go before I die. ...thanks Ron, only ano soldier would know how this feels." (Contact Super Yes, Supervisor's Name: Hazel Cathers, Superviso 212.683.1282) United States Army 4/2002 - 12/2 902nd Military Intelligence Group, Ft. Meade, MD US Hours per wee Senior Counterintelligence Special Agent Serving in positions as a Counterintelligence (CI) Speci Agent; routinely conducting liaison and operationa coordination with foreign and U.S. law enforcement security, and intelligence agencies. Planned and cond CI investigations relating to national security and t crimes while applying fundamentals of military and Detected, identified, exploited and neutralized thre Army and DOD missions, organizations and persona both CONUS and areas of the Middle East. Conduc collection activities and force protection operations, including aggressive collection, surveillance and te operations. Identified intelligence gaps. Provided suppor and authored CI analytical products, CI reports, est and vulnerability assessments for sensitive, open and programs. Preformed "Red team" operations and assessments, demonstrating vulnerabilities in criti systems and infrastructure. Additional duty assignments included: Chief, Technol Protection (TPP) for the US Army Counterintelligen Integrated Analysis Center (CIIAC). Mentored and supervised fifth-teen military and civilian Special A Intelligence Analysts. Principle planner and author bimonthly 'Technology Protection' bulletin, which w distributed throughout the intelligence community. "bulletin" contributed to an awareness of real and threats to Department of Defense critical technolo as well as and including foreign technology exchang programs. While serving in a hurried and unplanned deployme Middle East was assigned as a Senior CI agent of a Counterintelligence (CI)/human intelligence (HUMI that met regularly with former Iraqi government o and indigenous personnel prior to execution of Coal combat activities. During combat action assisted C Forces in neutralizing elements of the opposing Iraq and members of an incipient insurgency. Principle providing, when necessary, sanitized, classified inf to Coalition Partners. While assigned as Assistant Foreign Disclosures for Coalition Combatant Land For Command (CCLFC), directly impacted the pace an information sharing during dynamic combat opera moved at an unprecedented pace. Additional dutie assignment as the "Technical Security Officer," an position, of the "Joint Technical Surveillance Countermeasures Team" (TSCM), providing TSCM for existing and potential classified installations th CENTCOM area of responsibility. and indigenous personnel prior to execution of Coal combat activities. During combat action assisted C Forces in neutralizing elements of the opposing Iraq and members of an incipient insurgency. Principle providing, when necessary, sanitized, classified inf to Coalition Partners. While assigned as Assistant Foreign Disclosures for Coalition Combatant Land For Command (CCLFC), directly impacted the pace an information sharing during dynamic combat opera moved at an unprecedented pace. Additional dutie assignment as the "Technical Security Officer," an position, of the "Joint Technical Surveillance Countermeasures Team" (TSCM), providing TSCM for existing and potential classified installations th CENTCOM area of responsibility. US Army, Joint Forces 10/1998 - 4/2 Command, El Dorado Task Force New York, NY US Hours per wee Intelligence Research Specialist Detailed to the 'High Intensity Drug Trafficking Are York/New Jersey HIDTA" (i.e., NY/NJ HIDTA), prov applied and shared unique military intelligence ana processes directly impacting field operations of FB USCS, Secret Service, NYPD, the US Attorney's Of (Southern District) and other law enforcement enti Analysis brought new insights into money launderi narcotics trafficking techniques. Major area of inter studying the use of ATMs for the purpose of channel funds across international boundaries. Financial an banking and other instruments enabled the HIDTA identify and neutralize the threat of cross-boarder laundering by identifying previously latent banking accounts, accounts ID by FINCEN as suspicious, and methods and techniques that are not available in wi distributed public discourse. Provided applications statistical analysis, utilizing, in many cases a null hyp theory working from unprocessed information in a to prove the hypothesis true or false. A software p gaining currency among academics as well as in th is entitled "SEAS," A Systematic Evidential Argume System, which can be tailored for each mission set contributed a great degree in the strategic analysi publication of the annual United States Customs Se (USCS) "Drug Trafficking Trends and Analysis' Ass for years 1998 and 1999. Two keys words and one word underscore the importance of SEAS: 1) Evide case development begins with evidence to some var degrees and, 2) Argumentation. Just like in a fairly restrained cocktail afternoon debate, one must arg point, almost ad nauseam to the agreement of all gentleman [sic] witnessed before the argument ca forward. SEAS provides a safer, albeit, more struc environment for two or more analysts to engage in robust of arguments: the key is they must also su argument by providing what may begin as a snipp information, hardly worth the effort of writing it at a becomes the missing element to the proof or refut the hypothesis. This seemly futile exercise was the instrument in bring cases to fruition (from the poin law enforcement) by putting the pedal to the meta graphical and wholly legal means of presenting "G manipulation of evidence in structured arguments. It is was also coincidental and unfortunate that I w the destruction of the World Trade Center on Septe 2001 as I was on duty that faithful day talking wit Director of the HIDTA, Chancey Parker about mak for responses for catastrophic incidents. The conve was brief, but I certain 9/11 and its aftermath has itself into our minds as agents forever. We were w accounts, accounts ID by FINCEN as suspicious, and methods and techniques that are not available in wi distributed public discourse. Provided applications statistical analysis, utilizing, in many cases a null hyp theory working from unprocessed information in a to prove the hypothesis true or false. A software p gaining currency among academics as well as in th is entitled "SEAS," A Systematic Evidential Argume System, which can be tailored for each mission set contributed a great degree in the strategic analysi publication of the annual United States Customs Se (USCS) "Drug Trafficking Trends and Analysis' Ass for years 1998 and 1999. Two keys words and one word underscore the importance of SEAS: 1) Evide case development begins with evidence to some var degrees and, 2) Argumentation. Just like in a fairly restrained cocktail afternoon debate, one must arg point, almost ad nauseam to the agreement of all gentleman [sic] witnessed before the argument ca forward. SEAS provides a safer, albeit, more struc environment for two or more analysts to engage in robust of arguments: the key is they must also su argument by providing what may begin as a snipp information, hardly worth the effort of writing it at a becomes the missing element to the proof or refut the hypothesis. This seemly futile exercise was the instrument in bring cases to fruition (from the poin law enforcement) by putting the pedal to the meta graphical and wholly legal means of presenting "G manipulation of evidence in structured arguments. It is was also coincidental and unfortunate that I w the destruction of the World Trade Center on Septe 2001 as I was on duty that faithful day talking wit Director of the HIDTA, Chancey Parker about mak for responses for catastrophic incidents. The conve was brief, but I certain 9/11 and its aftermath has itself into our minds as agents forever. We were w a new dawn for the collection, analysis and dissem information and neutralization of various target set d dissem information and neutralization of various target set Josephthal Lyon & Ross 10/1996 - 10/ New York, NY US Salary: 175,00 Per Year Hours per wee Financial Consultant Developed financial advisory relationships with indi families, non-profit institutions, and businesses ba financial need and tolerance to risk management. P and provided guidance in investments, balance sheet management, insurance, retirement and other are appropriate. Exceeded sales quotas for fourteen consecutive m mutual fund sales, placing me at the "Captains" ta annual Christmas party Columbia-Presbyterian 9/1986 - 9/19 Medical Center New York, NY US Salary: 78,000 Year Hours per wee Clinical Perfusion Assistant 1994-1995: Served my last position the imbuing qual world class institution as a Business / Materials Ma the Clinical Perfusion Team. I provided support in strategic planning, supply-chain management suppor implementation of just-in time ordering technology associated protocols, balance sheet management, forecasting and budgeting for delivery of vital clinic supplies and applications. 1988-1994: Serving as a Clinical Perfusion Assistant of the fastest growing and progressive heart trans centers in the world, provided direct support to the Perfusionist, in all areas of the functions and perfor his/her job. Typically, in the set-up and operation heart-lung machines, including Extra Corporeal Lung Oxygenation (ECMO), Intra-aortic balloons (IABP), left cardiac assist devices, Cell Saver and associate equipment. I became the resident body of knowled ECMO which often times can led a well=seasoned down many false paths, as ECMO is as much about as it is an enigma. Challenging obvious assumptions forcing , if you will, a new paradigm for the caring patient, many times just days old Perfusionist, in all areas of the functions and perfor his/her job. Typically, in the set-up and operation heart-lung machines, including Extra Corporeal Lung Oxygenation (ECMO), Intra-aortic balloons (IABP), left cardiac assist devices, Cell Saver and associate equipment. I became the resident body of knowled ECMO which often times can led a well=seasoned down many false paths, as ECMO is as much about as it is an enigma. Challenging obvious assumptions forcing , if you will, a new paradigm for the caring patient, many times just days old 1986-1988: selected and conducted duties as the Chief Cardiov Technician for the Cardiac Catheterization Laborat Instructed clinical personnel on the set-up and use cardiovascular monitoring devices used during catheterization procedures for patient populations ranged from newborn to the most senior. Inserted when appropriate. Established baseline clinical me measured, calculated dynamic cardiac indexes dur after procedures. When appropriate participated in revivals during basic and/or advanced cardiac life Assisted and mentored medical students, resident and other clinical staff in the calibration, measurem interpretation of intra-thoracic/cardiac pressure wa assigned technicians and nurses for duty; prepared ordered supplies, maintained stocks of critical inve and provided operational briefings to the Chief-Phys when warranted. As a member of the clinical staff I was also bestow the position of an adjunct instructor: Instructing c non-clinical staff in adult and pediatric Basic and A Cardiac Life Support. Often took part in OSHA safety surgical operations EDUCATION JOB RELATED TRAINING procedures on animals during approved IPB initiat Villanova University PA, PA US Professional -9/2004 24 Quarter Hours Major: Project Management GPA: 3-8 out of 4.0 Mercy College Dobbs Ferry, NY US Professional - 8/2001 30 graduate credits Credits Major: Orgnizational Leadership and Development GPA: 3.2 out of 4.0 Honors: cum laude Relevant Coursework, Licensures and Certification Graduate course work in leadership, strategic man communications and team building, conflict resolut analysis, professional development, ethics, motivat theory, organizational behavior and intercultural management, statistics. business administration a accounting. City College of the City of New York New York, NY US Bachelor's Degree - 6/1989 o Revisiting Writing Skills, DAU, 2010 o Basic Math, DAU, 2010 o Time Management, DAU, 2010, 0 Strategic Thinking, DAU 2010, o Joint Special Operations Task force (JSOTF), 2010 o Fundamentals of Systems Acquisition Management 2010 o National Archives and Records Administration, N 2009 o Legal aspects of Joint Operations, USJFC, 2009 AFFILIATIONS o Conflict Management and Negotiation Course, USJ 2009 o Cyperlaw 1 Course, USJFC, 2009 o Applied Project Management, Villanova Universit o Battle Staff NCO course, CSGMA, 2003 o Foreign Disclosure Course, DIA, 2002 o Research and Technology Protection course, JCITA, o Basic and Advanced Intelligence Analyst course, 1998, 1999 o Advanced Counterdrug Analyst Course, DIA, 1998 o Special Forces Operations and Intelligence Course, JFKSWCS, 1992 o Counterintelligence Special Agent, USAICS, 1989 o Advanced Psychological Operations , JFKSWCS, Additional training include: Special Forces Qualifica tab, Ranger training and graduation, Ranger tab, M Parachuist with more than five combat jumps, Mas Alitude/High Openig Jumpmaster with more than f combat jumps. Succesfully administered routine and emergency medical treatment to indigenous personnel Ongoing relationships with major mediclal centers medical schools throughout the world. Certified Cla Special Agent. Retired Intelligence Member Officers Association 75th Ranger Member Regiment Association Project Member Management Institute The American Member Society of Anesthesia PROFESSIONAL PUBLICATIONS REFERENCES Technologists and Technicians U.S. Special Forces Member Association 82nd Airborne Member Association Classifed publications (CODE WORD/ Top Secret/S Special Acces Programs). James CENTCOM Senior Contract "Duke" Briley, LTC (RET) Phone 813-827-1299 Number: Email james.briley@us.army.mil Address: Reference Professional Type: Hazel Cathers Soldiers and Director o Sailors Home, New Operation York City Phone Number: 212.683.1282 Reference Type: Professional Edmund Barrett US Army Command Meade, MD Phone Number: 3016777145 Email Address: edmund.barrett@us.army.mil Reference Type: Professional Anthony Bell U.S. Army, XVIII Senior Airborne Corps communi Specialist Phone Number: 9106438139 Email Address: anthony.bell@us.army.mil Reference Type: Professional Memet Oz Columbia Professor Presbyterian Cardiac S Medical Center/Columbia University Phone Number: 2123054434 Reference Type: Professional Craig Smith Columbia-Chief, Su Presbyterian Medical Center/Columbia University Phone Number: 2123052633 Reference Type: Professional ADDITIONAL Highly experienced and expert in data collection, a and reporting. INFORMATION Well versed, but not limited in the following compu applications and databases: GIS software, ACS, IN (JWICS), NSAnet, PORTICO, NCIS, SIPRNET, TECS PATHFINDER, M3, FORDTIS, COLISEUM, DCII, JIVA, Tool Sets, DATAFINDER, CORNERSTONE, LEXIS-NEXI Westlaw, AUTOTRACK, PIMS, ASAS, SEAS, RAID, SHARE, MapD, VETSNET, National Archives Records Retrieval System database, Joint Service Learning Management System (LMS), Automated Fingerprin Retrieval/Analysis System and Microsoft office suit including expert use of ACCESS data base. Expert in all cardiovascular procedures, inculde, bu limited to cardiac catherization on newborns throu clinical perfusion, IABP, RVAD, LVAD, cell saver, Extracorporal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO). 2000-2002: Executive Vice-President of Communit 12 in New York City, representing and facilitated ci concerns and requests from a culturally diverse com to the NY City Executive Government. Served simultaneously as Vice-President, Transportation a committee. Meet monthly with New York's Mayor and executive staff. concerns and requests from a culturally diverse com to the NY City Executive Government. Served simultaneously as Vice-President, Transportation a committee. Meet monthly with New York's Mayor and executive staff. TOP SECRET w/SCI security clearance based on SSBI Date of investigation complete: 17 May 2007 Date of adjudication: 16 Nov 2007 Adjudication agency: Central Intelligence Agency ( NACIC: Department of Veterans Affairs Security clearance: none Agency adjudication: Public trust, May 2009 